<html>
  <body class="c27 doc-content"><div><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c13"></span></p></div><p class="c1"><span class="c18">**A cryptocurrency web service that uses or consumes**</span><span class="c23 c28">COINLORE or COINCAP or COINPAPRIKA API from Github<br></span><span class="c4 c16">Empowering Your Cryptocurrency Insights</span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c14 c4"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c8">TEAM:</span><span class="c0"><br>This project will be done by Divine Ezelibe alone, because, i have difficulties communicating with partners who indicated interest in teaming up with me, they have been unresponsive, having noticed as well that we don’t have all the time to round up projects, i decided to go solo, but i wished i had a very responsive partner. So every thing in this project will be done by me alone.</span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c0"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c14 c8">TECHNOLOGIES:</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">Language: Python, HTML, CSS</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">Framework: Flask</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">End point: COINLORE/COINCAP/COINPAPRIKA<br>Resources: Google, RESTFUL API project (intranet), ChatGPT</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">Hardware: MacBook Pro</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">Platform: Web</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0"><br>Do I have alternatives? Yes, I do. I am already familiar with PHP, i would have used php, but i chose Python because that is what i had been learning in ALX, so i needed to use this medium to get my hand busy with some stuff myself with python, ofcos, i am sure this will improve my knowledge and experience in python.</span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c0"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c14 c8">CHALLENGES:</span></p><ul class="c7 lst-kix_4u8k9r1x03f-0 start"><li class="c9 li-bullet-0"><span class="c3">Describe the problem the Portfolio Project is intended to solve.</span></li><li class="c9 li-bullet-0"><span class="c15">Explain what the Portfolio Project will </span><span class="c15 c29">not</span><span class="c3">&nbsp;solve</span></li><li class="c9 li-bullet-0"><span class="c3">Explain who the Portfolio Project will help and/or who the users will be</span></li><li class="c9 li-bullet-0"><span class="c3">Is this project relevant or dependent on a specific locale?</span></li></ul><p class="c1"><span class="c10">What it will solve:<br></span><span class="c0">The Portfolio Project is intended to solve the problem of efficiently tracking cryptocurrency investments. It aims to provide users with a centralized platform to monitor their diverse cryptocurrency holdings by viewing real-time market data.</span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c0"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">What the Portfolio Project will not solve: </span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">The Portfolio Project will not provide financial advice or investment recommendations. While it assists users in tracking their cryptocurrency assets and market trends, it does not guarantee profits or mitigate the inherent risks associated with cryptocurrency investments.</span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c0"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">Who the Portfolio Project will help and/or who the users will be: </span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">The Portfolio Project will benefit cryptocurrency investors, traders, and enthusiasts who want to keep a close eye on their cryptocurrency portfolio. It is suitable for both individuals managing personal investments and professionals handling multiple portfolios.</span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c0"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">Relevance to a specific locale: </span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">The Portfolio Project's relevance is not dependent on a specific locale. Cryptocurrency investments and markets are global in nature, and this web service can be accessed and used from anywhere with an internet connection.</span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c0"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c14 c8">RISKS:</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c4">Technical Risks:</span><span class="c0">&nbsp;</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">API reliability, security vulnerabilities, and scalability challenges. Safeguards include error handling, secure coding, redundancy, and auto-scaling.</span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c0"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c4 c14">Non-Technical Risks: </span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">Regulatory compliance, market volatility, and competitive landscape. Strategies involve legal review, data protection, risk education, differentiation, and user feedback.</span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c0"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c0">INFRASTRUCTURE:</span></p><ul class="c7 lst-kix_ish6wrjk4bui-0 start"><li class="c9 li-bullet-0"><span class="c15">Describe your process for branching and merging in your team’s repository (e.g. </span><span class="c6"><a class="c25" href="https://www.google.com/url?q=https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/bQTzmtjVW4bSNUbo_WUj4g&amp;sa=D&amp;source=editors&amp;ust=1693920628515423&amp;usg=AOvVaw2O5lYVg5SXyG904rXPNaVn">GitHub flow</a></span><span class="c15">, </span><span class="c6"><a class="c25" href="https://www.google.com/url?q=https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/PH2jTmX2-3ye1iYY8Dbapw&amp;sa=D&amp;source=editors&amp;ust=1693920628515784&amp;usg=AOvVaw1Lqp5PcuN4FqRTDxyeNktR">Picking the right branch-merge strategy</a></span><span class="c3">)</span></li><li class="c9 li-bullet-0"><span class="c3">Describe your strategy for deployment</span></li><li class="c9 li-bullet-0"><span class="c3">Describe how you will populate your app with data</span></li><li class="c9 li-bullet-0"><span class="c3">Describe what tools, automation or process you will use for testing</span></li></ul><p class="c11"><span class="c10 c21">I am working on the project alone.</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c14 c4">Strategy for Deployment:</span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c10">For deploying the Flask portfolio project, I will consider using PythonAnywhere's free account as the initial deployment option due to its ease of use and no-cost access. The platform provides a cloud-based environment for hosting Python web applications, making it convenient to deploy and manage the Flask app without the need to set up and maintain a separate server.</span></p><p class="c11"><span class="c19"><br></span><span class="c17"><br></span><span class="c4">Populating the App with Data:</span><span class="c0">&nbsp;<br>To populate the app with data, I will integrate APIs from reputable cryptocurrency data providers like COINLORE, COINCAP, and COINPAPRIKA. These APIs will provide real-time market data, cryptocurrency prices, and other relevant information to keep the portfolio app up-to-date. Additionally, I may include a feature to allow users to manually input their holdings for customization.</span></p><p class="c11"><span class="c4">Testing Tools, Automation, and Process: </span><span class="c0"><br>For testing, I will conduct manual testing to validate user flows and interactions. Continuous monitoring will help identify and address issues promptly.</span></p><p class="c11 c2"><span class="c0"></span></p><p class="c11"><span class="c14 c23 c24">EXISTING SOLUTIONS:</span></p><ul class="c7 lst-kix_4k0beno09kdy-0 start"><li class="c1 c12 li-bullet-0"><span class="c23">CoinTracker:</span><span class="c13">&nbsp;<br>CoinTracker is a cryptocurrency portfolio tracking and tax reporting platform. It allows users to connect their exchange accounts and wallets to automatically track their cryptocurrency holdings. Users can view their portfolio's performance, get insights into gains/losses, and generate tax reports for their crypto investments.<br>Similarities: CoinTracker and my portfolio web service share the core functionality of enabling users to track their cryptocurrency holdings.<br>Differences: CoinTracker is a specialized platform that provides tax reporting features, which is not the primary focus of my portfolio web service. Additionally, your web service might offer a unique user interface</span></li><li class="c1 c12 li-bullet-0"><span class="c13">Blockfolio: Blockfolio is a mobile app that allows users to track their cryptocurrency portfolio, view real-time prices, set alerts, and access market news. It offers a mobile-first experience for quick and easy portfolio monitoring.<br>Similarities: Both Blockfolio and my portfolio web service aim to provide users with real-time tracking and monitoring of their cryptocurrency investments.<br>Differences: Blockfolio is primarily a mobile app, while my web service is accessible from both mobile and desktop devices.</span></li><li class="c1 c12 li-bullet-0"><span class="c13">Delta: Delta is another mobile app for cryptocurrency portfolio management. It allows users to track their crypto holdings, view price charts, and analyze their portfolio performance. Delta offers a user-friendly mobile interface for efficient portfolio tracking.<br>Similarities: Delta and my portfolio web service share the common goal of providing users with a user-friendly platform to monitor their cryptocurrency portfolios.<br>Differences: Delta is optimized for mobile devices, while my web service caters to both mobile and desktop users. </span></li></ul><p class="c1 c2 c5 c26"><span class="c13"></span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c13"></span></p><p class="c1 c2"><span class="c13"></span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c14 c22">Reason for Reimplementation (Hypothetical Scenario - Image Compression Algorithm): </span></p><p class="c1"><span class="c13">Since my portfolio web service aims to be unique, reimplementing an existing solution might be necessary to meet my project's unique requirements. By building my own web service, I have the flexibility to customize the user interface, integrate additional features, and ensure that the service aligns precisely with my vision and user needs. Additionally, it allows me to have full control over the service's backend, security, and scalability, ensuring a reliable and personalized experience for users.</span></p><p class="c1 c2 c5"><span class="c0"></span></p></body></html>
